Date: 2012-10-06
Title: Modify the system bootloader
Objective: 45
Category: e. Deploy, Configure, and Maintain Systems - (RHCSA)
Tags: RHCSA

Here they are referring to the default bootloader, GRUB (GRand Unified Bootloader). The configuration file for GRUB can be found at /boot/grub/grub.conf and looks like this:

    :::bash
    # grub.conf generated by anaconda
    #
    # Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
    # NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that
    #          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
    #          root (hd0,1)
    #          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/sdb3
    #          initrd /initrd-[generic-]version.img
    #boot=/dev/sdb
    default=0
    timeout=5
    splashimage=(hd0,1)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
    hiddenmenu
    title Red Hat Enterprise Linux (2.6.32-71.el6.i686) 
      root (hd0,1)
      kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.32-71.el6.i686 ro root=UUID=0d96a842-0806-42fb-84af-2ae0676fd40d rd_NO_LUKS rd_NO_LVM rd_NO_MD rd_NO_DM LANG=en_US.UTF-8 SYSFONT=latarcyrheb-sun16 KEYBOARDTYPE=pc KEYTABLE=us crashkernel=auto rhgb quiet
      initrd /initramfs-2.6.32-71.el6.i686.img
    title Windows 7
      rootnoverify (hd0,0)
      chainloader +1

Most likely the change that you will be administering is boot order or timeout. Its always good to have a little bit of a timeout, in case you really hose your install with a kernel upgrade, ram disk, etc. This gives you that time (in seconds) to choose the old kernel and/or modify boot options.

In the example above, there are two entries, one for RHEL 6 and one for WIN 7. GRUB gives you the option at boot time as to which one you would like to boot into, and also reads from the "default=" line for automatic boot. To make WIN 7 boot automatically, well, change default from 0 to 1.

I always make a backup before messing with this thing, that way if you have to boot into rescue, you can restore your backup and reboot. Never hurts to backup these things beforehand...